Initial documentation for processing rules (#25359)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/service_management/on-call/processing_rules.md

---
title: Processing Rules
further_reading:
- link: '/service_management/on-call/'
  tag: 'Documentation'
  text: 'Datadog On-Call'
---

> Processing Rules allow teams to customize their response strategies for distinct types of incoming events, enabling them to orchestrate events to escalation policies and urgency levels based on the event's metadata. Low urgency pages do not trigger escalation processes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Overview

On-call processing rules allow teams to customize their response strategies for distinct types of incoming events. This enables teams to add events and urgency levels to to escalation policies based on the event's metadata. Low urgency pages do not trigger escalation processes.
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure what this means:
> enabling them to orchestrate events to escalation policies and urgency levels based on the event's metadata

Datadog creates a default processing rule when you [onboard a Team to On-Call][1].

> ### Viewing processing rules of your team

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## View your team's processing rules
```

> To see the processing rule of your On-Call Team, simply click on its name in the [list of Teams][2].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To see the processing rule of your On-Call Team, click on the Team name in the [list of Teams][2].
```

> ### Query Syntax

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Query syntax
```

> Processing rule follow the common query syntax of Datadog. Supported attributes include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Processing rules follow the common query syntax of Datadog. Supported attributes include:
```

* `tags`: the tags set on the incoming alert. For example, `tags.env:prod`.
* `groups`: checks if the incoming alert relates to a specific Monitor group. For example, `groups:"service:checkout-service"`.
* `priority`: value of the priority field of the Monitor. Possible values include 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5. For instance, `priority:(1 OR 2)`.
* `alert_status`: value of the Monitor's status. Possible values include `error`, `warn`, `success`. Usage example: `alert_status:(error OR warn)`.

If no specific filter should be applied, use `*`.

> ### Ordering

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Ordering
```

> Ordering of Processing Rules matters. The system goes from top to bottom and will stop matching rules if one matches. If no query or time filter matches the incoming alert, the default processing rule will be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ordering of processing rules matters. The system goes from top to bottom and stops at the first matching rule. If no query or time filter matches the incoming alert, the default processing rule is used.
```
